Sarah: Hi Bertold, thanks for joining. I'm Sarah, an Engineering Manager here at hokify. How are you doing today?
Bertold: Hi Sarah. I'm doing really well, thanks for asking. Grabbed a coffee and I'm ready to go.
Sarah: Great. So today we'll do a roughly 60-minute technical interview. We'll start with a chat about your background, then move into some Node.js and system design questions. Sound good?
Bertold: Sounds like a plan.
Sarah: Awesome. Looking at your CV, I see you recently worked at Sipwise, where you migrated a legacy Perl API to NestJS. That’s a big shift! Can you tell me a bit about why NestJS was chosen and what your specific role was in that architecture?
Bertold: Sure. So the main issue with the Perl codebase was onboarding. We were bringing in newer engineers, and it was taking months to get them up to speed. We chose NestJS because it forces a really strict, opinionated architecture, which we desperately needed coming from the wild west of legacy Perl.
Bertold: My specific role was leading the backend logic translation. We used OpenAPI specs to map out the old endpoints first, and then I built out the TypeORM entities and the core controllers.
Sarah: I see. Did you run into any specific challenges mapping the old Perl data models to TypeORM?
Bertold: Oh, definitely. The biggest headache was that the old MariaDB schema had a lot of mixed concerns-foreign keys weren't strictly enforced, and there were these massive JSON blobs stored in text columns. We had to write a bunch of custom TypeORM transformers to serialize and deserialize that data properly so the Nest application wouldn't choke on it.
Sarah: That makes total sense, legacy databases are always fun. Let's shift gears to general Node.js. If we have a Node microservice here at hokify that's experiencing high event loop lag under load, how would you go about debugging it?
Bertold: Hmm. Event loop lag usually means something synchronous is blocking the thread. Usually, my first step is looking at our APM-like Grafana or Datadog-to see which endpoints are spiking in latency. If I need to get into the code, I'll profile it using Node's built-in profiler or generate a CPU flame graph to see exactly which function is eating up the cycles.
Sarah: Good approach. Let's say you find out that the bottleneck is a massive JSON payload being parsed synchronously. How do you fix that?
Bertold: If the JSON is huge, like multi-megabyte, `JSON.parse` will definitely block. The best fix is to stream it. You can use libraries like `stream-json` to parse the incoming data in chunks. We actually had to do something similar at Benefit Büroservice when syncing large CRM datasets.
Sarah: Nice call out. How do you handle errors in a Node.js stream pipeline? It can get a bit tricky.
Bertold: Yeah, unhandled stream errors will crash your app. If you're using older piping, you have to attach an `.on('error')` listener to every single stream in the pipeline. But nowadays, I prefer using `stream.pipeline` from the native `stream` module, because it handles destroying all the streams automatically if one fails, and you can just wrap the whole thing in a standard async try-catch or pass a single callback.
Sarah: Exactly, `stream.pipeline` saves a lot of headaches. Let's talk system design. We use Elasticsearch heavily. Imagine we are building a new search feature. How would you design the index mapping to handle fast, fuzzy text search across job descriptions?
Bertold: Okay, for fuzzy search across big text fields... well, the brute-force way is using an ES fuzzy query, but that calculates Levenshtein distance on the fly and gets really expensive on CPU. A better approach is using edge n-grams during indexing. It creates partial tokens, so the search time is incredibly fast.
Sarah: Wait, edge n-grams are great for autocomplete, but they increase index size massively. Given our strict infrastructure budget, what if we can't afford the storage overhead for edge n-grams?
Bertold: Ah, fair point. Yeah, n-grams will blow up your storage costs. If storage is the hard constraint, then we have to fall back to query-time fuzziness. But to keep it performant, I wouldn't run the fuzzy query on the entire job description. I'd probably run a standard match query first, maybe boost exact matches on the job title, and only apply fuzziness to a smaller, specific field, or limit `max_expansions` to keep the CPU usage down.
Sarah: That's a great compromise. Lastly, your CV mentions you improved system uptime to 95% at Sipwise. Walk me through the actual architectural change you made there.
Bertold: Sure. The original setup was literally just one monolithic Perl app on a single bare-metal server. If it went down, everything went down. The main thing I did was containerize it with Docker and move it behind an Nginx load balancer. Then, we set up a secondary instance. It wasn't full auto-scaling yet, but just having active-passive failover and moving the session state into Redis meant we stopped dropping connections every time we needed to restart a node.
Sarah: Excellent. That sounds like a solid improvement. Well, we have a few minutes left. Do you have any questions for me about the backend engineering role here at hokify?
Bertold: I do, actually. I saw you're using MongoDB and Postgres. How do you handle data consistency between the two if a transaction fails?
Sarah: That's a great question. We mostly use an event-driven pattern... [Fades out]